External OAuth Redshift (#6897)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/manage-access/external-oauth.md

:::note 

> This feature is currently only available for the Okta and Entra ID identity providers with [Redshift](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-redshift-postgresql-alloydb) and [Snowflake connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-snowflake).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently only available for Okta and Entra ID identity providers with [Redshift](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-redshift-postgresql-alloydb) and [Snowflake connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-snowflake).
```

:::

> dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 

Reviewer 2: Hiya @matthewshaver 

Should the "External" in the sentence "When External OAuth is enabled" be capitalised or lower case? It's in lower case in the second paragraph.

Kind Regards
Natalie

> dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 

Reviewer: This wording is a bit off. Ultimately they are sharing credentials to dbt Cloud but just not ones that are static. 

```suggestion
dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their static credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 
```

> dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their static credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When **External OAuth** is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their static credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 
```

> dbt Cloud Enterprise supports external OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP).  This grants users authorization to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without their credentials being shared with the service. Not only does this make the process of authenticating for development environments easier on the user, it provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud Enterprise supports OAuth authentication with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP). External OAuth authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier for the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 
```

## Getting started

> The process of setting up external OAuth will require a little bit of back-and-forth between your dbt Cloud, IdP, and data warehouse accounts, and having them open in multiple browser tabs will help speed up the configuration process:

Reviewer 2: Hiya @matthewshaver 

Should the "External" in the sentence "The process of setting up external OAuth" be capitalised or lower case? It's in upper case in the first paragraph.

Kind Regards
Natalie

Author: Great question! In the original case we're referencing the feature itself, titled as "External Oauth" but it should have the bold marking since it's a UI element. In this case, it's not a proper noun, we're calling it what it is - an external OAuth connection.

2. Scroll down to **Custom integrations** and click **Add integrations**
3. Leave this window open. You can set the **Integration type** to Okta and note the **Redirect URI** at the bottom of the page. Copy this to your clipboard for use in the next steps.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/callback-uri.png" width="60%" title="Copy the callback URI at the bottom of the integration page in dbt Cloud." />

> ### 2. Create the Okta app

Reviewer: This okta section is still very Snowflake specific with the images and snowflake account url. I just wanted to call that out. I don't know if it's actually different for Redshift with Okta

1. Expand the **Applications** section from the Okta dashboard and click **Applications.** Click the **Create app integration** button.
2. Select **OIDC** as the sign-in method and **Web applications** as the application type. Click **Next**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/create-okta-app.png" width="60%" title="The Okta app creation window with OIDC and Web Application selected." />

3. Give the application an appropriate name, something like “External OAuth app for dbt Cloud,” that will make it easily identifiable.
4. In the **Grant type** section, enable the **Refresh token** option.
5. Scroll down to the **Sign-in redirect URIs** option. You’ll need to paste the redirect URI you gathered from dbt Cloud in step 1.3.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/configure-okta-app.png" width="60%" title="The Okta app configuration window with the sign-in redirect URI configured to the dbt Cloud value." />

6. Save the app configuration. You’ll come back to it, but move on to the next steps for now.

### 3. Create the Okta API

1. Expand the **Security** section and click **API** from the Okta sidebar menu.

> 2. On the API screen, click **Add authorization server**. Give the authorization server a name (a nickname for your data warehouse account would be appropriate). For the **Audience** field, copy and paste your data warehouse login URL (for example, https://abdc-ef1234.snowflakecomputing.com). Give the server an appropriate description and click **Save**.

Reviewer 2: Hiya @matthewshaver 

I'm not sure if this is intentional but the link: https://abdc-ef1234.snowflakecomputing.com takes me to a page not found page.

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer: That is intentional because it's meant to represent an account url
